---
title: English - Theme of Courage in Chapter 1-15
layout: post
author: sharan.kalamohan
permalink: /english---theme-of-courage-in-chapter-1-15/
source-id: 17tLyhs-PfxVGWKl_6-sgxyuyX3D8-E8bEnRi_MBzXrw
published: true
---
**How does Harper Lee present the theme of Courage in 'To Kill A Mockingbird' in Chapter 15 and the first 14 Chapters.**

In 1960, Harper Lee published a book called 'To Kill A Mockingbird'. The book is based on the segregated times during 1933-1935, In Macomb, A Southern Town in Alabama. There are many themes in ‘TKAM’ such as racial inequality and courage but this essay will be mainly focused on how Harper Lee shows courage throughout Chapters 1 to Chapter 15. Harper Lee uses the courage shown in ‘TKAM’ to stand up against the racial equality during the 1930’s.

After Chapter 9, Harper Lee presents Atticus as a courageous character as when he was assigned the case of defending Tom Robinson. Not only is Atticus fighting against Mayella and her lawyers but against the majority of Macomb County. He states "Do all lawyers protect negroes" which suggests that he is standing up against Macomb County and that he is only doing the job which he studied and worked for. This 

In Chapter 10, Atticus is assigned the task of shooting a rabid dog on Finch's street. It was after the shot that Scout and Jem find out that Atticus was the best shot in the county and was nicknamed 'One Shot Finch'. This shows Atticus was brave enough to shoot a dog with a virus who could have attacked him and eventually killed Atticus. He also shows courage as he hasn't picked up and used a gun in a very long time so he has gone from panicking to doing it. He also shows courage by standing up to the rabid dog and not being scared due to the fact he doesn't know if he is still accurate as before. Jem and Scout are different in this Chapter, Jem thinks if Atticus was proud of shooting the dog and being called ‘One Shot Finch’ he would have told his kids. This shows that not only is Atticus brave but he is also humble and does not like to brag. This infers that Jem wants to follow in the path of his father, Atticus, and wants to be humble and courageous like Atticus.

During Chapter 11, Mrs Dubose is prejudiced but she shows courage and is courageous when she is fighting a battle against morphine which she knows is both right and probably a lost cause. Atticus wants his kids to realize that courage isn't strength or skill with a gun, it's standing up for what's right no matter what. This shows us that Harper Lee wanted the death of Mrs Dubose to be another teaching or a lesson as Atticus teaches his kids the real meaning of courage. In Chapter 11 Atticus states "I certainly am. I do my best to love everybody... I'm hard put, sometimes. This infers that atticus is standing up for what's right and doesn't care if he is a "n**ger lover" but wants the world to be a better place and wants peace and equality. Scout also shows courage as she has the audacity to ruin and destroy Mrs Dubose's camellias to protect his father. She also has heard of the rumour that she carries around a pistol but her courage fights through and thinks a 'a pistol won't stop me’. This shows us that Jem fights for her beliefs no matter what.

In Chapter 15, While Atticus is being surrounded by the 15 men, Jem gets scared and protective and runs over to atticus while followed by Scout and Dill. The men tell Atticus to get rid of the 'kids'. but Jem shows courage by staying and trying to protect Atticus and Tom. but Jem "Shakes his head no".  This shows us that Jem is willing to protect the ‘Afro-American’ and his dad. Jems actions is a courageous action of an adult facing conflict. This shows courage as Jem didn't leave and stayed to protect his beloved father. Another act of courage was when Atticus stayed the whole night reading a book protecting Tom Robinson with only knowledge and law, He was determined to guard the basic human rights without using a gun or another weapon.  This shows Atticus is holding his ground and is going to protect Tom for his whole case. Back in Chapter 9, Atticus says “that every lawyer gets at least one case in his lifetime that affects him personally and that this one is his”. This links in with Chapter 15 as he protects Tom as it's his case and will do everything he can to defend Tom and protect Tom.

